## Learning Laravel

1. Create Laravel project:
    * composer create-project --prefer-dist laravel/laravel blog
    
2. Run Laravel project
    * php artisan serve

3. See server:
    * php artisan tinker
    * App::environment();

4. Keep Application in maintenance mode.
    * php artisan down
    
5. Keep Application in maintenance mode with message.
       * php artisan down --message"Upgrading Database"
       
6. Keep Application in up.
    * php artisan up
    
7. Keep Application running after down mode
    * php artisan up
    * php artisan serve

## Laravel project directory structure

0. .env file
    * Project environment setup like DB, Server, Cloud Service, Mail Service etc...
    * If .env file is not available rename the .env.example file into .env file
    
1. app folder
    1. Console/Kernel.php -> The Console Kernel is use when we interact with our application from the command line. If we use artisan, or when a scheduled job is processed, or when a queued job is processed, all of these actions go through the Console Kernel.
    
    2. Exceptions/Handler.php -> Write code for exception handle.
    
    3. Http
        1. Controller -> Controllers are meant to group associated request handling logic within a single class
        
        2. Middleware -> Middleware provide a convenient mechanism for filtering HTTP requests entering your application. For example, Laravel includes a middleware that verifies the user of your application is authenticated. If the user is not authenticated, the middleware will redirect the user to the login screen.
        
        3. Kernel.php -> Register a newly created middleware in this file
        
    4. Providers -> The Providers directory is used to contain all the service providers that are required to register events for core servers and provides configuration for Laravel application.
        
    5. User.php -> Model in MVC pattern
    
2. bootstrap -> The bootstrap directory holds the files that are required to bootstrap the Laravel application and to configure auto-loading. The bootstrap folder contains a sub-folder cache used for caching a web application. It also contains the file app.php that initializes the scripts required for bootstrap. Laravel project run from here.

3. config -> The config folder includes various configurations and associated parameters required for the smooth functioning of a Laravel application. The filenames work as per the functionality associated with them.

4. database -> The database directory contains our database migrations, model factories, and seeds. If we wish, we may also use this directory to hold an SQLite database.
    1. factories −> This folder is used to generate large number of data records.
    
    2. migrations −> This folder helps in queries for migrating the database used in the web application.
    
    3. seeds -> This contains the classes used for unit testing database.
    
5. public -> The public directory contains the index.php file, which is the entry point for all requests entering our application and configures autoloading. This directory also houses your assets such as images, JavaScript, and CSS.

6. resources -> The resources directory contains the views as well as raw, un-compiled assets such as LESS, SASS, or JavaScript. This directory also houses all the language files.

7. routes -> The routes directory contains all of the route definitions for our application. By default, several route files are included with Laravel: web.php, api.php, console.php and channels.php.

8. storage -> The storage directory contains your compiled Blade templates, file based sessions, file caches, and other files generated by the framework. This directory is segregated into app, framework, and logs directories. 
    1. app -> Used to store any files generated by our application.
    2. framework -> Used to store framework generated files and caches.
    3. logs -> Contains our application's log.

9. tests -> The tests directory contains your automated tests.

10. vendor -> The vendor directory contains our Composer dependencies.

##
